Update Commit Message docs (#308)
CloudCannon/platform-documentation: articles/configure-your-commit-messages.mdx

</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once you have saved the changes to your global configuration file, the *Review changes* modal in CloudCannon will update to include a commit message.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/save-changes/2024-03/CloudCannon-Documentation-Save-Changes-Commit-Message.png" alt="The Review changes modal with a commit message describing the changes made to the site." title="Commit messages in the Review changes modal with commit message field" type="ui-snippet"/>

### Placeholders in commit templates

Commit templates can use placeholders. When CloudCannon reads a placeholder in a commit message, it will replace it with the data it references before sending the commit message to your Git repository.

There are two types of placeholders:

* **Data placeholders** — Replaced with data you have defined. These placeholders use `{ }` brackets.
* **Fixed placeholders** — Replaced with data defined by CloudCannon. These placeholders use `[ ]` brackets.

> For commit message templates, data placeholders reference inputs you have defined in your global configuration file under `commit_templates._inputs`. If you do not define a data placeholder used by your commit template, CloudCannon will make it an empty text input by default (i.e., the `{message}` placeholder).

Reviewer: > CloudCannon will make it an empty text input by default

If the input type isn't defined, CloudCannon will take a best guess at the intended type based no the placeholder name, falling back to a text input. For example `{date}` will render a date input without any extra configuration.

> For commit message templates, data placeholders reference inputs you have defined in your global configuration file under `commit_templates._inputs`. If you do not define a data placeholder used by your commit template, CloudCannon will make it an empty text input by default (i.e., the `{message}` placeholder).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For commit message templates, data placeholders reference inputs you have defined in your global configuration file under `commit_templates._inputs`. If you do not define a data placeholder used by your commit template, CloudCannon will use the default input type based on the placeholder name (e.g., a date picker for `{date}`, or a text input for `{message}`).
```

* `[default_commit_message]` creates the default commit message that CloudCannon would generate. This will resolve to a sentence like "Added/Updated X file(s)".

You can use a mix of data and fixed placeholders in your commit templates.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
commit_templates:
  - template_string___1___: |
     {ticket_number}: {subject}
     Committed by [author] at [date]
    _inputs:
      ticket_number:
        type: number
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `template_string` contains two data placeholders, one defined and one undefined, and two fixed placeholders.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  If your commit template does not include any placeholders, any literal text in the template string will appear in a text area on the *Review changes* modal.
</comp.Notice>

For more information on placeholders in general, please read our documentation on [configuring your template strings](/documentation/articles/configure-your-template-strings/).

### Filters in commit templates

> Commit templates can use filters to modify placeholders. Filters should occur after the placeholder name, separated by a `|` character. You can apply multiple filters to a single placeholder. For example, `{title|trim|uppercase}` will trim, then uppercase, a data placeholder called "title".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commit templates can use filters to modify placeholders. Filters should occur after the placeholder name, separated by a `|` character. You can apply multiple filters to a single placeholder. For example, `{title|trim|uppercase}` will remove leading and trailing whitespace, then uppercase, a data placeholder called "title".
```

Here is an example of multiple commit message templates.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
commit_templates:
  - label___1___: Custom message
    template_string: "{message}"
  - label___2___: Structured message
    template_string___3___: "{commit_type}: {message|trim}"
    _inputs___4___:
      commit_type___5___:
        type: select
        options:
          values:
            - feature
            - fix
            - refactor
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `label` key provides a name for the first template in the array.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  The `label` key provides a name for the second template in the array.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  This template uses two placeholders and a filter. The key `commit_type` is defined below. The key `message` is undefined and will appear as a text input with the trim filter applied to the content.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="4">

>   All data placeholders used in the commit template must be defined under the `_inputs` key. If a placeholder is not defined, CloudCannon will make it an empty text input by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  All data placeholders used in the commit template must be defined under the `_inputs` key. If a placeholder is not defined, CloudCannon will use the default input type for that placeholder name, falling back to an empty text input.
```

### Commit templates from a file

Rather than configure a template string in your global configuration file, you can configure a `template_path` to point at a file containing your commit template. CloudCannon will use the content of this file as your template string.

This could be a better option if you already have a file containing your commit message template or want to prevent a long commit template from taking up space in your global configuration file.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
commit_templates:
  - label: Commit message from file
    template_path___1___: /.git/commit-message.txt
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `template_path` key value is the path of the file containing your commit template, relative to the root directory.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Extra data

> In some cases, you may need to create nested template strings. You can define another template string using the `extra_data` key. Anything defined under extra data is processed sequentially and before `template_path` or `template_string`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you may need to create nested template strings. You can define another template string using the `extra_data` key. Anything defined under `extra_data` is processed sequentially and before `template_path` or `template_string`.
```
